# Blockchain-based Health and Usage Monitoring Systems (HUMS) For Aerospace Structures 

Ravi Mukkamala, Eranga Bandara, Sachin Shetty 

_{_ rmukkama, cmedawer, sshetty _}_ @odu.edu Old Dominion University Norfolk, Virginia 

_**Abstract**_ **—As the complexity of avionics systems continues to grow, so does the criticality of monitoring and maintaining these systems. While it is important to collect data regarding the health and usage of the structures and the underlying components, it is equally important to store the data in a manner that is easily accessible, tamper-resistant, and secure. In this paper, we propose a blockchain-based system to store and manage the data generated by avionic health and usage monitoring systems (HUMS). Traditional file systems are prone to attacks, intentional/unintentional destruction or tampering of data, and failures. By replacing the traditional data storage systems with blockchains, along with the use of cryptographic techniques, additional properties such as assurances of source/time of data generation, improved faulttolerance/availability, and tamper-evidence can be offered. By employing smart contract feature of blockchains, functionalities such as sending alerts to administrators in case of problems can be implemented in a secure, safe, and timely manner. We propose blockchain-based HUMS architectures for both real-time and non-real-time application support. A high-level description of the architectures is provided with some details on data organization and additional functionalities.** 

_**Index Terms**_ **—Avionics, blockchain, fault-tolerance, IoT, monitoring, smart contracts, tamper-proof** 

## I. INTRODUCTION 

Avionics systems are characterized by their need for high reliability and the size of the systems. These necessitate automated monitoring of the health of different structural components followed by an automatic analysis and diagnosis of any impending issues with the underlying components. While avionics health and usage monitoring systems (HUMS) have been in existence for a long time, the increasing complexities in avionics systems accompanied by the developments in sensor technology, the storage technology, and the computational power of the processing systems, calls for redesigning the systems [1]. Blockchains are one the latest technologies that are drastically changing the way businesses are operating today. For example, Microsoft, Amazon, Tencent, Nvidia, J.P. Morgan, Walmart, Alibaba, PayPal, Samsung and the Bank of China are among the top companies that are using blockchains for their day-to-day working [2]. Figure 1 lists companies that are in different stages of deployment of blockchains in their organizations. The properties of distributed storage, data replication, immutability, and security due to the use of cryptographic techniques make them attractive alternatives for conventional storage systems. These properties are also relevant for avionics HUMS systems. 

In this paper, we propose a 4-layered architecture for a blockchain-based avionics HUMS system. We discuss different technologies that go into the architecture and discuss functionalities of each layer. The work is in its preliminary stages. The implementation is yet to be done. The paper is organized as follows. In section 2, we discuss different efforts in the HUMS arena, some even employing the blockchain technologies. In section 3, we summarize the system requirements of a typical avionics HUMS. Section 4 introduces different technologies to be used in the proposed architecture. In section 5, we describe the proposed HUMS architecture with some details and examples for each layer. A brief description of the platform functionality is provided in section 6. Section 7 discusses plans for implementation. Finally, section 8 concludes the paper. 

## II. BACKGROUND 

As shown in Figure 2 [1], in the 1960s the focus of avionics engineers was on structural health monitoring. By 1970s, the focus encompassed all components of all structures in a vehicle referring to it as vehicle health monitoring. With developments in technology, it then went through different phases from integrated vehicle monitoring management to prognostic and health management to today’s integrated system health management. Future systems are expected to be more advanced intelligent health and mission management systems. In other words, as new technologies, such as deep learning, artificial intelligence, sensor technologies, IoTs, and 

Fig. 1: Blockchain Adoption in Industry [2] 

data analytics, emerge and deployed in other areas, they are also being incorporated into vehicle health monitoring systems enabling them to be comprehensive vehicle monitoring and predictive systems. 

Blockchain technologies, first introduced by Satoshi Nakamoto in 2008 [3], primarily in the context of Bitcoin cryptocurrency, have quickly become popular in several application areas. Blockchains offer enhanced security, greater transparency, activity traceability, and tamper-evidence. These properties are needed in monitoring of safety-critical systems such as avionics. For this reason, several efforts have been made to investigate the efficacy of blockchain technologies in avionics and aviation industry. In a white paper [4], IATA explores the possibility of blockchain technologies in aviation industry including baggage, cargo, spare parts, and aircraft maintenance. It refers to several blockchain initiatives in the industry including Aeron, Loyyal, Ozone, STA FlightChain, TripBit, etc. In another study [5], Li et al. identify the factors in the aviation industry that will hasten the adoption of blockchain technologies in the aviation industry. They have identified tracking and tracing, digitalized management, air traffic management, regulatory governance and industry standards, and technological improvements and optimization on efficiency as the key factors that will influence blockchain usage in the industry. Lopes et al. [6] have conducted a qualitative study to determine the impact of blockchain on aviation industry. They conclude that while there is a strong desire to adopt blockchain technologies in the commercial aviation industry, there is a lethargy on its part to make the transition. They suggest that more resources be invested for further investigation and study its benefits. 

In terms of the use of blockchain in aviation industry, for keeping track of maintenance records, several efforts have been underway. In [7], through a prototype system, Andrei et al. have shown the benefits of blockchain in aircraft maintenance including secure record keeping, easy accessibility and transparency of the records, and accuracy and reliability of the data. Such transparency, even to the extent of making them available to public, is likely to improve the confidence of public in the airline industry. In another study [8], Marx et al. have shown how blockchain could be used to create a digital twin of a real aircraft so that it can keep track of millions of parts that are 

Fig. 2: History of HUMS Architectures [1] 

part of an aircraft. In addition, it can result in improved practices for aircraft maintenance. In a detailed study [9], Aleshi identified the need of blockchain to maintain secure aircraft maintenance records. The cryptographic techniques used in blockchains offer such security guarantees. In another detailed study [10], Rajkov identifies the use of blockchains in aircraft spare part management. This study identified Maintenance, Repair and Overhaul (MRO) providers that currently consider using blockchain to track and trace aircraft spare parts. The study concludes that blockchain has the the capability to track aircraft spare part. Such capability is not only strategically relevant for cost-conscious innovating MROs, but also does not impose a risk to the robustness of their business model in most scenarios. In [11], Efthymiou et al. look at the use of blockchain by MRO providers in aviation industry. They illustrate different aspects of MRO industry and discuss how each of these stages could benefit from blockchains. This is summarized in Figure 3. 

In terms of health monitoring in aviation industry, in a recent white paper [12], IATA reported the results of a detailed study on the use of blockchains in different aspects of aircraft health monitoring (AHM), and concluded that it is obligatory on the part of aircraft industry to adopt blockchain technologies for “Maintenance of Tomorrow.” In [13], Lian looks into the benefits of the use of advanced technologies such as blockchains and big data analytics in the aviation maintenance industry. They identify the five factors—Maintenance, material sharing, Tools kits flow, ENER plan, and refining schedules— as the key factors in avionics safety management systems and discuss how the advances could be employed in each of these stages. Similarly, Li and Ru [14], suggest ways to use the new technologies for prognostics and health management systems (PHM) for integrated avionics systems. They illustrate how the avionics industry in China is using highly informational state monitoring of aircraft to manage aircraft with high timeliness and precision. The data analytics tools and blockchain could help in these endeavors. Jha et al. [15] suggest an architecture for real-time monitoring of aircraft health using big data systems. 

Several other efforts have been underway in the use of blockchains in avionics and airline industry [16]–[29]. Shen et al. [16] propose a trusted aviation data exchange platform based on blockchain. Blasch et al. [21] suggest methods for 

Fig. 3: Aviation MRO System Functions [11] 

reliable avionics based on blockchains. Aleshi et al. [22] suggest the use of blockchains for storing aircraft maintenance records. Similar efforts are reported by Wang et al. [24] in employing blockchains in aircraft equipment maintenance. Clementi et al. [28] report a system for securely sharing flight data using blockchains. A data monitoring system based on encrypted data and blockchain is suggested by Zhu et al. [29]. 

Not surprisingly, blockchains also have become popular in human health monitoring systems. [30]–[33] are some recent work in this area where IoT devices and sensors are used to monitor patients’ health and store the data in blockchains. These systems enable preventive health management. 

In the rest of the paper, we describe the proposed HUMS architecture that incorporates some of the advanced techniques discussed here. 

## III. SYSTEM REQUIREMENTS 

Prior describing the proposed architecture, in this section, we look at some of the basic requirements of typical today’s and tomorrow’s HUMS systems. Instead of going through all their design requirements, we only look at some critical ones. 

- Safety: The primary objective of a HUMS system is to ensure that the avionics systems have safe operations. 

- Scalability: Avionics structures vary in size. So the HUMS architecture should be scalable to accommodate a variety of avionics systems. 

- Speed: When the aircraft is in operation, it is important to monitor the health of the structures and the underlying components. This is primarily achieved by embedding sensors in the components and structures. The sensors may be generating data at high speed and this needs to be captured by the HUMS systems. 

- Size: The size of the data generated from avionics HUMS system is expected to be quite large. Hence, the HUMS storage should be able to manage this large data. 

- Security: The sensors and the data generated should be safe and secure. In other words, it should not be tampered prior to storage as well as after the storage. In addition, the system should ensure that the data is available only to the authorized. 

- Performance It is important that the systems are quite responsive to user queries. Hence, the response time and throughput of the system should meet the user specifications. 

- Predictability: Based on the data collected, the system should be able to predict the condition of the structures and provide guidance on preventive maintenance activities. 

- Maintenance The system should also capture the data physically observed during the maintenance phase. This data also validates the sensor data as well as the quality of predictability analysis. 

## IV. FOUNDATIONAL TECHNOLOGIES 

In this section, we provide a background of the technologies that are used as part of the proposed HUMS infrastructure. 

Fig. 4: Transactions in a block ordered into a Merkle tree. Block hash will be generated with Merkle tree hash, previous block hash and random nonce. [38] 

They include blockchains, smart contracts, federated learning, model cards, IPFS, and big data analytics and predictability. 

## _A. Blockchain:_ 

A Blockchain is a special kind of distributed and decentralized system, which helps users or nodes, who cannot trust each others, to reach a consensus without relying on a single centralized controlling entity. It is a chain of blocks where each block contains a set of records. A block also can be thought of as a ledger which contains a timestamp and a hashed link to a previous block, creating a chain of blocks. Some special nodes, the miners, add blocks to the Blockchain through a procedure called “mining” [34]. Moreover, older blocks cannot be altered without invalidating the block that forks. In case more than one miner adds blocks to the chain simultaneously a fork occurs in the Blockchain.In such a case, the “longest-chain” rule is applied, where the nodes follow the branch containing the most number of blocks [35]. By design, Blockchain is tamper-proof, and once a new block has been recorded, the data in that block cannot be altered retroactively [36]–[38]. 

Figure 4 illustrates the structure of a blockchain showing part of it with three blocks. Each block has the hash of a previous block stored in it, shown in the figure as a link. Each block also stores the root of a transaction tree called the Merkle tree. The leaves of this tree are the transactions and the intermediate nodes are the hash of its child nodes. 

In summary, blockchain is a tamper-evident, distributed ledger that enables trusted and transparent business transactions with single source of truth among parties who may not fully trust each other, without overhead of intermediaries. It provides trust as a service at a lower cost. There are two primary types of blockchains based on the conditions placed 

on the nodes in the blockchains—permissioned blockchains and permissionless blockchains. 

In Permissioned Blockchains, nodes trust only a set of validating nodes and a governing authority [39]. Hence, they are more centralized. These systems sacrifice some of their decentrality to greatly improve scalability and performance [40]. By having the governing authority that provides inherent level of trust between participants, these Blockchain systems enable design decisions, such as sharding and channels, to be implemented without much hassle. Furthermore, the governing body can ensure data access to participants in the channel and only allow them to view sensitive transaction data [41]. 

In permissionless Blockchains, nodes do not particularly trust any set of validating nodes, instead try to reach a consensus in a probabilistic way, obviating the need to rely on centralized authorities [42]. The key driving force behind the interest in permissionless or public Blockchain is decentralization of power among the nodes with minimal trust relationships. The lack of a central authority enables Blockchain systems to provide stronger integrity and liveliness properties for distributed systems. Because there is no central authority in control, corrupting a Blockchain or hampering the propagation of its contents are only possible through collusion among powerful nodes. Consequently, Blockchain can achieve higher resistance against tampering and censorship, even in the presence of malicious nodes [39], [43]. 

For HUMS systems, permissioned blockchains are more appropriate since they are typically within an organization. 

## _B. Smart Contracts_ 

A smart contract is similar to a trusted middle-person situated between blockchain clients and the blockchain storage which enables higher-level functions. Client requests can be directed to smart contracts that execute the logic needed to provide a complex service, such as managing application state, enforcing governance, or verifying credentials. Using smart contracts, users do not need to perform queries to access data from the blockchain. Instead, smart contracts provide a programming interface so that applications can interact with the underlying blockchain nodes [44]. 

## _C. Federated Learning (FL)_ 

FL is a collaborative machine learning technique which is designed to address the privacy issues of the centralized machine learning system [45]. FL trains central models on decentralized data. This helps preserve the privacy of data on various peers as only the weight updates are shared with the centralized model while the data remains on each peer and we can still train a model using that data. 

## _D. Model Cards_ 

Model cards can provide a structured framework for reporting on machine learning (ML) model provenance, model usage, ethics-informed evaluation and a detailed overview of a model’s suggested uses and limitations that developers, regulators, and downstream users alike can benefit from. The Model 

Card Toolkit, which is provided by the Google TensorFlow framework [46], [47], can be used to generate Model Card objects. 

## _E. IPFS_ 

IPFS, the Interplanetary File System, is a peer to peer decentralized storage system which can be used to share files (data) through a distributed file system. It is made up of geographically distributed nodes where people and apps can store and share files. IPFS supports storing files and tracking versions over time. It uses content-addressing to uniquely identify the data in the network. Each file saved in the IPFS is identified with its CID (content identifier) which is derived through the hash of the file. 

## _F. Big Data Analytics and Predictability_ 

Big data analytics is the process of discovering hidden patterns [48], [49]. Figure 5 illustrates a framework for big data analytics in avionics [48]. Here, the sensor data is first collected and stored in a storage cluster (Storm cluster). The data is then accessed through HBase, a Hadoop database that is distributed and scalable. The data is available to decision makers as well as machine learning (ML) algorithms. The ML algorithms run on Map Reduce architecture using HDFS. Several other systems support this data analytics and predictability. There are similar efforts in this direction in avionics [50]– [54]. Based on the historical sensor data, the maintenance history, and the component performance models supplied by the manufacturers, the objective is to predict the health of the avionic structures and components and to suggest appropriate preventive maintenance measures. Such predictive proactive preventive maintenance will greatly enhance the safety of the aircraft. 

## V. PROPOSED ARCHITECTURE 

Based on the system requirements, we propose a 4-layered blockchain-based HUMS architecture for safe, secure, and scalable avionics health usage monitoring systems (Figure 6). The bottom layer or layer 1 of the architecture is the sensor layer. This layers represents the sensors that are embedded in the components and structures of the aircraft. The sensors monitor and the components and generate signals/data. The data is sent to the layer on top of it, the blockchain layer. 

The second layer, the blockchain layer, consists of a peerto-peer network nodes that store copies of the data generated by the sensor layer. Since the data is automatically replicated at different nodes, the system offers fault-tolerance. The chain aspect of the blockchain offers the tamper-proof or tamperevident property. In a blockchain, data can only be added and accessed, but never updated or deleted. This ensures that the sensor data and maintenance data can’t be altered once entered into the system. It also consists of different smart contracts. Smart contract is a software that runs on the blockchain nodes. It can support several functionalities required to support the avionics HUMS systems. In this paper, we identify four such contracts, as an example. This set may be extended as we 

Fig. 7: Example Sensor Placement in an aircraft [55] 

added/updated/deleted as and when needed. 

The fourth and top layer is the users layer. This represents the human controllers, maintenance personnel, safety inspectors, decision makers, etc. This layer is supported by the applications in the application layer. The necessary visual and other interfaces are built here for these users to be able to access the respective information in the format that is convenient for them. In the following, we briefly describe each of these layers. 

Fig. 5: Big Data Analytics Architecture for Avionics [48] 

identify more functionalities to be supported at this layer. The four example smart contracts are: identity contract, sensor contract, model card contract, and permission contract. Each of these will be described below. 

The third layer, the application layer, consists of different applications that are needed by different users. It includes component/structure life prediction module, the component usage record module, abnormal component reporting module, etc. This is a dynamic layer where modules may be 

- Sensors layer: The aircraft structures are embedded with thousands of sensors to monitor their health. These include monitoring of gas turbine engines, monitoring the vibration of the airframe structure, monitor gearbox and bearing, monitor of auxiliary power unit, combustion chamber roar monitoring, monitor system usage, health monitoring, diagnostic features, and engine parameters tracking in the case of incidents, monitoring of oil spoilage, etc. With today’s technology, the sensors are both wired and wireless. For example, structural response is obtained through strain, vibration, ultrasound, and piezoelectric sensor online structural health monitoring on airplane structures. Comparative Vacuum Monitoring (CVM) sensors and piezoelectric sensor arrays are two such sensor types. CVM sensors improve crack detection and piezoelectric sensors (PZT) monitor specific regions for damage. Figure 7 illustrates different types of sensors in a typical aircraft HUMS [55]. It includes smart sensors, temperature and humidity sensors, vibration sensors, strain sensors, piezoelectric sensors, and RFID sensors. 

- Blockchain and smart contract layer: The data generated by sensors needs to be stored safely, securely, and reliably in a storage. We use blockchains for this purpose. While blockchains can offer the tamper-proof property, they could be limited by the throughput they offer. Since sensor data generation rate in an aircraft could be quite high, we do have the provision to store the data in a distributed file system such as IPFS and store a signed hash of the data in the blockchain. Alternately, we could store some key elements of a data record in the blockchain and store the full data record in IPFS. 

Fig. 6: Platform layered architecture. 

- In addition to the data, blockchain also support different types of smart contracts. The identity smart contract 

manages the sensor identities. In order to ensure that the data being received and recorded by the HUMS system is genuine and has not been tampered with, each sensor is provided with a digital ID or a public key. This information is recorded in the blockchain through the identity smart contract. The data generated by the sensors could include a unique encoded signature that could be validated by an intermediate data filter prior to adding the data to the blockchain. The filter could interact with the identity smart contract in such verification. The sensor contract helps the higher layers to get access to the sensor data. It may be considered as an interface between the sensors and the applications.The applications may invoke the sensor contract via the requests submitted as transactions. Sensor contract accesses the sensor data, executes the required function, and returns the results back to the applications. The model card contract is one that interacts with higher level system models. It has access to the sensor data either directly or through the sensor contracts. Since it offers model specific services, it can do the required preprocessing on the sensor data and pass the results to the application layer. The permission contracts store data regarding authorizations provided to different entities in the system. For example, an application that is involved in monitoring engine vibrations should be restricted to accessing only data from the related sensors and not other data. This is also referred to as the principle of least privilege in operating systems terminology. This also prevents or limits the damage caused by unintentionally installed malware from accessing data that it is not entitled to. The other contracts may be using the permission contract services to verify the authorizations provided to their requestors prior to processing the requests. 

- Application layer: The avionics HUMS application software resides in this layer. It includes applications for maintenance teams, research and development teams, model building teams, performance monitoring teams, and even manufacturer applications. Each of them should be clearly defined and provided with a registered identity and appropriate authorizations (access control) to access data or invoke smart contract methods. They provide APIs for users to be able to obtain the needed information that could be displayed visually, provided in terms of alerts, or periodic reports. The big data analytics software is incorporated in this layer. It works in coordination with the Model Cards to develop, store, access, and update the component/system models based on the observed behavior. 

- Users layer: This represents human or machine users. For example, it could be the maintenance team interested to know the components that need replacement or maintenance. The research and development team may want to monitor the performance of a newly designed component. It could be a manufacturer who could be monitoring the operational characteristics of certain structures or 

components. It could also be higher level management that want to be aware of the overall health of its fleet. 

## VI. PLATFORM FUNCTIONALITY 

Clearly, the proposed architecture is very comprehensive, capable of providing services to a wide variety of users. It ensures security by incorporating checking of sensor identities and by storing the authorization information in the blockchain. It also facilitates for storing all the authorization and access policies in the blockkchain. These are then enforced through the smart contracts. It also incorporates the storing, updating, and accessing of models through model card contract and the big data analytics software. The application layer has open interfaces so more applications may be added as and when needed. The layered architecture makes each layer’s functionality independent of the actual technology used in the underlying layer. For example, if we are currently using one type of blockchain for storage and decide to change it in future to a newer technology, it can be done transparently as long as the service interfaces are kept the same. By employing blockchain technology at a lower layer, the system ensures that the sensor data is not corrupted or lost due to any intentional or unintentional damage. For example, since blockchains are themselves maintained by a set of nodes, each of them maintaining a copy of the data, failure of compromise of a few nodes is not going to alter the stored data or make it unavailable. 

## VII. IMPLEMENTATION 

We are currently in the process of implementing a prototype of this system. Our plan is to implement a highly scalable, lightweight blockchain system. We plan to experiment with the Rahasak blockchain [56]. We would combine it with IPFS storage where once the blocks are validated and generated, they are published on the IPFS peer to peer decentralized storage [57]. It supports functional programming and actor based concurrent transaction enabled smart contract model “Aplos” [44], [58]. The smart contracts will be built with Aplos smart contract platform using Scala functional programming language [59] and Akka actors [60]. The main questions that the implementation needs to answer are: (i) Can the system handle the large sensor data rates? (ii) What is the response time that may be offered to different types of users? (iii) How easy is it to integrate it with existing systems? (iv) How can the system be fine tuned to improve performance? (v) What parts of sensor data needs to be stored on bulk storage (IPFS) and what can be stored locally to improve the system performance? (vi) Can the available commercial tools for data analytics be integrated with the proposed blockchain-based system? The implementation and experimentation with it should be able to answer some of these questions. 

## VIII. CONCLUSIONS AND FUTURE WORK 

Health and usage monitoring systems are critical for avionics systems. While HUMS have been in existence for several years, recent technology advances such as blockchains, big 

data analytics, smart and wireless sensors, and high-speed networking and computing made it possible to design more advanced HUMS. In this paper, we propose a blockchain-based multi-layered architecture for advanced HUMS. The system offers a scalable, secure, flexible, robust, and highly-available. It employs smart contracts to manage sensor and component identities as well as access control and authorization policies. It enforces the principle of least privilege to limit any damage due to the presence of any compromised applications. The scalability is achieved by the multi-node blockchain network and the distributed IPFS storage network. The multi-layered architecture enables flexible system where in different system components can be updated or replaced without affecting the functionality of other layers. The use of model cards enables it to store, update, and retrieve component/sensor models. We are now planning to implement a proototype of this system. 

## REFERENCES 

- [1] K. Ranasinghe, R. Sabatini, A. Gardi, S. Bijjahalli, R. Kapoor, T. Fahey, and K. Thangavel, “Advances in integrated system health management for mission-essential and safety-critical aerospace applications,” _Journal of Progress Aerospace Sciences_ , vol. 128, no. 1, pp. 1–39, 2022. 

- [2] M. Lim, “81 of top 100 companies use blockchain technology, blockdata research shows,” _Forkast_ , 2021. 

- [3] S. Nakamoto, “Bitcoin: A peer-to-peer electronic cash system,” _White paper_ , 2008. 

- [4] IATA, “Blockchain in aviation: Exploring the fundamentals, use cases, and industry initiatives,” _Research in Transportation Business & Management_ , 2018. 

- [5] X. Li, O.-L. Lai, C.-C. Yang, and K. Yuen, “Determinants of blockchain adoption in the aviation industry: Empirical evidence from korea,” _Journal of Air Transport Management_ , vol. 97, 2021. 

- [6] D. Lopes, P. Rita, and H. Treiblmaier, “The impact of blockchain on the aviation industry: Findings from a qualitative study,” _Research in Transportation Business & Management_ , vol. 41, no. 12, 2021. 

- [7] A. Andrei, R. Balasa, M. Costea, and A. Semenescu, “Building a blockchain for aviation maintenance records,” _Journal of Physics_ , 2021. 

- [8] C. Marx, R. Sealey, and S. Thompson, “How blockchain can improve the aviation industry?” _Tech Innovation_ , 2019. 

- [9] A. Aleshi, “Secure aircraft maintenance records using blockchain,” _Embry-Riddle Aeronautical University, M.S. Thesis_ , 2018. 

- [10] D. Rajkov, “Blockchain for aircraft spare part management,” M.S. Thesis, Delft University of Technology, June 2018. 

- [11] M. Efthymiou, K. McCarthy, C. Markou, and J. O’Connell, “An exploratory research on blockchain in aviation: The case of maintenance, repair and overhaul (mro) organizations,” _Journal of Sustainability_ , vol. 14, no. 5, 2022. 

- [12] IATA, “White paper: From aircraft health monitoring to aircraft health management: White paper on ahm,” 2022. 

- [13] X. Lian, “Application prospects of new information technology in aviation maintenance industry,” in _2021 7th International Symposium on Mechatronics and Industrial Informatics (ISMII)_ , 2021, pp. 288–291. 

- [14] C. Li and L. Ru, “Prognostics and health management techniques for integrated avionics systems,” in _2019 Prognostics and System Health Management Conference (PHM-Qingdao)_ , 2019, pp. 1–5. 

- [15] A. K. Jha, S. Nayak, and N. K. Veerabhadrappa, “An architecture for performing real time integrated health monitoring of aircraft systems using avionics big data,” in _2017 2nd International Conference on Computational Systems and Information Technology for Sustainable Solution (CSITSS)_ , 2017, pp. 1–5. 

- [16] D. Shen, H. Liu, L. Zhou, and B. Zhang, “Design of trusted aviation data exchange platform based on blockchain,” in _2020 IEEE 2nd International Conference on Civil Aviation Safety and Information Technology (ICCASIT_ , 2020, pp. 704–708. 

- [17] J. Riechmann, “Blockchain takes to the skies—an assessment of blockchain applications in the airline industry,” M.Sc. Thesis, Universidade Catolica Portuguesa, June 2020. 

- [18] D. Werner, “Sure, there’s hype. but blockchain has concrete space applications,” _Space News_ , no. 11, 2021. 

- [19] M. Verma, “Application of hybrid blockchain and cryptocurrency in aviation,” _International Journal of Advances Research, Ideas, and Innovations in technology_ , vol. 41, no. 12, 2018. 

- [20] M. Rolinck, S. Gellrich, C. Bode, M. Mennenga, F. Cerdas, J. Friedrichs, and C. Herrmann, “A concept for blockchain-based lca and its applications in the context of aircraft mro,” in _28th Conference on Life Cycle Engineering_ , 2021, pp. 394–399. 

- [21] E. Blasch, R. Xu, Y. Chen, G. Chen, and D. Shen, “Blockchain methods for trusted avionics systems,” in _2019 IEEE National Aerospace and Electronics Conference (NAECON)_ , 2019, pp. 192–199. 

- [22] A. Aleshi, R. Seker, and R. F. Babiceanu, “Blockchain model for enhancing aircraft maintenance records security,” in _2019 IEEE International Symposium on Technologies for Homeland Security (HST)_ , 2019, pp. 1–7. 

- [23] Y. Peng, “Application of blockchain in civil aviation,” in _2021 2nd International Conference on Computing and Data Science (CDS)_ , 2021, pp. 198–202. 

- [24] C. Wang and B. Li, “Research on traceability model of aircraft equipment based on blockchain technology,” in _2019 IEEE 1st International Conference on Civil Aviation Safety and Information Technology (ICCASIT)_ , 2019, pp. 88–94. 

- [25] R. W. Ahmad, K. Salah, R. Jayaraman, H. R. Hasan, I. Yaqoob, and M. Omar, “The role of blockchain technology in aviation industry,” _IEEE Aerospace and Electronic Systems Magazine_ , vol. 36, no. 3, pp. 4–15, 2021. 

- [26] J. Li, Z. Peng, A. Liu, L. He, and Y. Zhang, “Analysis and future challenge of blockchain in civil aviation application,” in _2020 IEEE 6th International Conference on Computer and Communications (ICCC)_ , 2020, pp. 1742–1748. 

- [27] X. Lu, Z. Wu, Y. Wu, Q. Wang, and Y. Yin, “Atmchain: Blockchainbased solution to security problems in air traffic management,” in _2021 IEEE/AIAA 40th Digital Avionics Systems Conference (DASC)_ , 2021, pp. 1–8. 

- [28] M. Clementi, N. Larrieu, E. Lochin, M. A. Kaafar, and H. Asghar, “When air traffic management meets blockchain technology: a blockchain-based concept for securing the sharing of flight data,” in _2019 IEEE/AIAA 38th Digital Avionics Systems Conference (DASC)_ , 2019, pp. 1–10. 

- [29] H. Zhu, Y. Su, Y. Qiu, J. Li, H. Xu, and X. Liao, “Civil aviation data monitoring system based on encryptable consortium blockchain,” in _2021 2nd International Conference on Electronics, Communications and Information Technology (CECIT)_ , 2021, pp. 378–382. 

- [30] A. Yogeshwar and S. Kamalakkannan, “Healthcare domain in iot with blockchain based security- a researcher’s perspectives,” in _2021 5th International Conference on Intelligent Computing and Control Systems (ICICCS)_ , 2021, pp. 1–9. 

- [31] S. Jeong, J.-H. Shen, and B. Ahn, “A study on smart healthcare monitoring using iot based on blockchain,” _Wireless Communications and Mobile Computing_ , 2021. 

- [32] K. Azbeg, Q. Ouchetto, and S. Aldaloussi, “Blockmedcare: A healthcare system based on iot, blockchain and ifps for data management security,” _Elsevier: Egyptian Informatics Journal_ , 2022. 

- [33] P. Sharma, N. Moparthi, S. Namasudra, V. Shanmuganathan, and C.H. Hsu, “Blockchain-based iot architecture to secure healthcare system using identity-based encryption,” _Expert Systems Journal_ , 2021. 

- [34] M. Conoscenti, A. Vetro, and J. C. De Martin, “Blockchain for the internet of things: A systematic literature review,” in _2016 IEEE/ACS 13th International Conference of Computer Systems and Applications (AICCSA)_ . IEEE, pp. 1–6. 

- [35] M. Lischke and B. Fabian, “Analyzing the bitcoin network: The first four years,” _Future Internet_ , vol. 8, no. 1, p. 7, 2016. 

- [36] J. Mern, “Structure and evolution of bitcoin transaction network,” _Department of Aeronautics and Astronautics, Stanford University_ . 

- [37] K. Singh, “Measuring node centrality in lightning network,” _Medium_ , 2017. 

- [38] E. Bandara, S. Shetty, R. Mukkamala, and et al., “Casper: a blockchainbased system for efficient and secure customer credential verification,” _Journal of Banking and Financial Technology_ , vol. 6, pp. 43–62, 2022. 

- [39] K. W¨ust and A. Gervais, “Do you need a blockchain?” in _2018 Crypto Valley Conference on Blockchain Technology (CVCBT)_ . IEEE, 2018, pp. 45–54. 

- [40] S. De Angelis, L. Aniello, R. Baldoni, F. Lombardi, A. Margheri, and V. Sassone, “Pbft vs proof-of-authority: Applying the cap theorem to permissioned blockchain,” 2018. 

- [41] T. Sato and Y. Himura, “Smart-contract based system operations for permissioned blockchain,” in _2018 9th IFIP International Conference on New Technologies, Mobility and Security (NTMS)_ . IEEE, 2018, pp. 1–6. 

- [42] T. Neudecker and H. Hartenstein, “Network layer aspects of permissionless blockchains,” _IEEE Communications Surveys & Tutorials_ , vol. 21, no. 1, pp. 838–857, 2018. 

- [43] C. Cachin and M. Vukoli´c, “Blockchain consensus protocols in the wild,” _arXiv preprint arXiv:1707.01873_ , 2017. 

- [44] E. Bandara, W. K. NG, K. De Zoysa, and N. Ranasinghe, “Aplos: Smart contracts made smart,” _BlockSys’2019_ , 2019. 

- [45] T. Yang, G. Andrew, H. Eichner, H. Sun, W. Li, N. Kong, D. Ramage, and F. Beaufays, “Applied federated learning: Improving google keyboard query suggestions,” _arXiv preprint arXiv:1812.02903_ , 2018. 

- [46] H. Fang and H. Miao, “Introducing the model card toolkit for easier model transparency reporting,” 2020. 

- [47] A. Wadhwani and P. Jain, “Machine learning model cards transparency review: Using model card toolkit,” in _2020 IEEE Pune Section International Conference (PuneCon)_ . IEEE, 2020, pp. 133–137. 

- [48] G. Burmester, H. Ma, D. Steinmetz, and S. Hartmannn, _Big Data and Data Analytics in Aviation_ . Cham: Springer International Publishing, 2018, pp. 55–65. 

- [49] B. Xu and S. A. Kumar, “Big data analytics framework for improved decision making,” _2014 Intl. Conf. Internet Computing (ICOMP)_ , 2014. 

- [50] L. Kirkland, T. Pombo, K. Nelson, and F. Berghout, “Avionics health management: searching for the prognostics grail,” in _2004 IEEE Aerospace Conference Proceedings (IEEE Cat. No.04TH8720)_ , vol. 5, 2004, pp. 3448–3454 Vol.5. 

- [51] P. Knight, L. Partridge, and H. Powrie, “Ge aviation use-case – apache spark for analytics,” in _2021 IEEE International Conference on Prognostics and Health Management (ICPHM)_ , 2021, pp. 1–5. 

- [52] S. Weerasinghe and S. Ahangama, “Predictive maintenance and performance optimisation in aircrafts using data analytics,” in _2018 3rd International Conference on Information Technology Research (ICITR)_ , 2018, pp. 1–8. 

- [53] A. Murugan, D. Mylaraswamy, B. Xu, and P. Dietrich, “Big data infrastructure for aviation data analytics,” in _2014 IEEE International Conference on Cloud Computing in Emerging Markets (CCEM)_ , 2014, pp. 1–6. 

- [54] F. Forest, J. Lacaille, M. Lebbah, and H. Azzag, “A generic and scalable pipeline for large-scale analytics of continuous aircraft engine data,” in _2018 IEEE International Conference on Big Data (Big Data)_ , 2018, pp. 1918–1924. 

- [55] S. Gao, X. Dai, Y. Hang, and Q. Ji, “Big data analytics framework for system health monitoring,” _Wireless Communications and Mobile Computing_ , 2018. 

- [56] E. Bandara, X. Liang, P. Foytik, S. Shetty, N. Ranasinghe, and K. De Zoysa, “Rahasak-scalable blockchain architecture for enterprise applications,” _Journal of Systems Architecture_ , p. 102061, 2021. 

- [57] J. Benet, “Ipfs-content addressed, versioned, p2p file system,” _arXiv preprint arXiv:1407.3561_ , 2014. 

- [58] E. Bandara, X. Liang, P. Foytik, S. Shetty, N. Ranasinghe, K. De Zoysa, and W. K. Ng, “Saas-microservices-based scalable smart contract architecture.” 

- [59] M. Odersky, P. Altherr, V. Cremet, B. Emir, S. Maneth, S. Micheloud, N. Mihaylov, M. Schinz, E. Stenman, and M. Zenger, “An overview of the scala programming language,” Tech. Rep., 2004. 

- [60] M. Gupta, _Akka essentials_ . Packt Publishing Ltd, 2012. 

